---
title: How To Edit
nav_order: 5
---

> This post is for the docs maintainers to know how to add new content to the websites.

### Contents
* TOC
{:toc}


## Edit on Github

**This is the best method for quick typo fixes.**

Simply using the edit feature on GitHub is sufficient. Go to `docs` folder and find the post you want to edit, then click the edit button.
- Use the `Preview` doesn't commit changes.
- Once you are done, click `Commit changes`, the GitHub Action will automatically build and deploy everything. 

If you wish to modify a large portion of an article or write a new one, you may need to edit and preview it locally.

## How to modify the site locally

### Ubuntu
> Don't use `sudo` for anything here.

1. Follow the official Ubuntu [installation guide](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/ubuntu/) to install Jekyll. By the end, you’ll have two key gems installed: *Jekyll* and *Bundler*.
    - **Tip**: Following the commands from the official guide, the gems will be stored in your home direcotry under a folder called `gems`, if you don't want that, modify the path such as the code below:
        ```bash
        echo '# Install Ruby Gems to ~/jekyll_ws/gems' >> ~/.bashrc
        echo 'export GEM_HOME="$HOME/jekyll_ws/gems"' >> ~/.bashrc
        echo 'export PATH="$HOME/jekyll_ws/gems/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
        source ~/.bashrc
        ```
    - **Note**: *Jekyll* is a static site generator written in *Ruby*. A gem is a Ruby library or package. *Bundler* is a Ruby tool for managing gem dependencies in your project.
2. Git clone the doc repository to your local machine.
3. Navigate to the root directory of your cloned repository and run: `bundle install`. Bundler will install all the dependencies listed in the Gemfile. If everything works, you can host your site locally by running: `bundle exec jekyll serve`. Then, visit your site at http://127.0.0.1:4000/.
    - `Gemfile`: A file listing the Ruby gems your project depends on, along with their required versions.
    - `Gemfile.lock`: Automatically generated by Bundler when you run bundle install. It locks the exact versions of gems used.

**Troubleshooting Version Errors**

If you encounter errors like this:
```bash
$ bundle update
Fetching gem metadata from https://rubygems.org/...........
Resolving dependencies...
Bundler found conflicting requirements for the Ruby version:
In Gemfile:
   html-proofer (~> 5.0) was resolved to 5.0.9, which depends on
   Ruby (< 4.0, >= 3.1)

Current Ruby version:
   Ruby (= 3.0.2)
```
This means your Ruby version is too old (e.g., you have 3.0.2, but it requires 3.1 or higher). Unfortunately, you can’t update Ruby using apt because its version is outdated. You’ll need a version manager like [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv).

**How to use rbenv to install Ruby**
1. **Avoid using** `sudo apt install rbenv`—it’s outdated. Instead, install rbenv it using Git:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
   ~/.rbenv/bin/rbenv init
   ```
   **then restart the terminal.**
2. With rbenv installed, you can install Ruby:
    ```bash
    # list latest stable versions:
    rbenv install -l

    # install a Ruby version:
    rbenv install 3.1.2

    rbenv global 3.1.2   # set the default Ruby version for this machine
    # or:
    rbenv local 3.1.2    # set the Ruby version for this directory
    ```

Once that’s done, try running `bundle install` again. If no errors occur, you’re ready to use: `bundle exec jekyll serve` and visit your local host website.

### MacOS
1. Follow the macOS [installation guide](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/macos/).  This guide explains why you shouldn’t use the pre-installed system Ruby and provides commands for installing a newer Ruby version and version management tools.
   - For more detailed instructions, check out this [guide](https://www.moncefbelyamani.com/how-to-install-xcode-homebrew-git-rvm-ruby-on-mac), which covers potential issues and their solutions.
2. Once Ruby is set up, navigate to the root directory of your cloned repository and run: `bundle install`. Bundler will install all the dependencies listed in the Gemfile. If everything works, you can host your site locally by running: `bundle exec jekyll serve`. Then, visit your site at http://127.0.0.1:4000/.

**Handling Version Issues with chruby**

If you encounter errors like this:
```bash
$ bundle update
Fetching gem metadata from https://rubygems.org/...........
Resolving dependencies...
Bundler found conflicting requirements for the Ruby version:
In Gemfile:
   html-proofer (~> 5.0) was resolved to 5.0.9, which depends on
   Ruby (< 4.0, >= 3.1)

Current Ruby version:
   Ruby (= 3.0.2)
```

use **chruby**, a version manager. 
1. First, install the desired Ruby version by running this in your terminal: `ruby-install 3.2.3`.
2. Then, switch between Ruby versions by typing: `chruby`. This will list available versions:
   
   ```bash
   $ chruby                                                                 
   ruby-3.2.3
   * ruby-3.3.5
   ```
    so you know that you are currently using 3.3.5, and 3.2.3 is available to switch to.
3. To switch to a specific version, run: `chruby 3.2.3`

Now you’re all set! Try running `bundle exec jekyll serve` and visit your local site to start building your blog.